eight years ago I was haunted by an evil
spirit I was 25 at the time and I was
living in a tiny house behind someone
else's house in Los Angeles his this
guesthouse it had kind of been
dilapidated not taken care of for a long
time and one night I was sitting there
and I got this three spooky feeling kind
of feeling like you're being watched but
no Mystere except my two dogs and they
were just chewing their feet
and I looked around known as their and I
thought okay it's just my imagination
but the feelings just kept getting worse
and I started to feel this this pressure
in my chest
sort of like the feeling when you get
bad news but it started to sink lower
and lower and almost hurt and over the
course of that week this feeling got
worse and worse and I started to become
convinced that something was there in my
little guest house haunting me and I
started to hear these sounds this kind
of whispers like something passing
through me and I called my best friend
Clair and I said I know this goes on
baby but I think if we got ghosts in my
house I need to get rid of it and she
said she's very open-minded and she said
I don't think you're crazy I think he
just needs to do a cleansing ritual
Joan get some sage and burn it and tell
it to go away
so I said okay and I went and I bought
sage and I had never done this before so
set the stage on fire waved it about and
say go away this is my house I live here
you don't live here but the feeling
stayed nothing got better and and then I
started to think okay well now this
thing's probably just laughing at me
because you know it hasn't last and I
probably just look like this impotent
powerless thing that couldn't get it to
go away and so every day I'd come home
you guys this feeling got so bad that I
mean I'm laughing at it now but I would
I would sit there in bed and I would cry
every night and the feeling on my chest
got worse and worse it was it's
physically painful and I even went to a
psychiatrist and tried to get her to
prescribe me medicine and she wouldn't
just because I don't hope this
affronting okay and so so finally I got
on the internet and I googled coughing
and I came upon this forum of ghost
hunters but these were a special kind of
ghost hunters they were skeptic and so
they believed that every case of ghosts
that they had investigated so far had
been explained away by science and I was
like okay smart guy this is what's
happening to me and if you have an
explanation for me I would love to hear
it and one of them said okay have you
heard of carbon monoxide poisoning and I
said yeah yeah like like gas poisoning
so carbon monoxide poisoning is when you
have a gas leak leaking in your home and
I looked it up
and the symptoms of carbon monoxide
poisoning include a pressure on your
chest auditory hallucinations and an
unexplained feeling of dread so that
night I called the gas company I said I
have an emergency I need you to come out
don't want to get into the story now but
I need to come out he came out I said I
suspect a gas leak
they brought their carbon monoxide
detector and the man said it's a really
good thing that you called us tonight
because you could have been dead very
soon 37% of Americans believe in haunted
houses and I wonder how many of them
have been in one and how many of them
have been in danger so that haunting
story has led me to my jobs I'm an
investigator and I'm an investigator in
two senses I'm an investigative
journalist and I'm also an investigator
of the claims of the paranormal and
claims of the spiritual and that means a
few things sometimes that means that I'm
pretending to need an exorcism so that I
can get yes that's right so I can go to
an exorcist and see if he's using
gimmicks or psychological tricks to try
to convince someone that they're
possessed sometimes that means I'm going
undercover in a fringe group which I
report on for a podcast that I co-host
and I've done over 70 investigations
like this with my co-host Ross and I
would love to tell you that nine times
out of ten science wins things that I
all explained that's not true the truth
is ten times out of ten science wins it
saves the day
Oh
[Music]
and that doesn't mean there's no such
thing as a mystery of course there are
mysteries but a mystery is a mystery it
is not a ghost now I believe there are
two kinds of truth and it's taken me a
while to get to this place but I think
this is right and hear me out I think
there is outer truth and there's inner
truth so if you say to me there was a
man named Jesus and he once existed
that's outer truth right when we can go
and we can look at the historical record
we can determine whether that seems to
be true and I would argue it does seem
to be true if you say Jesus rose from
the dead loulou trickier I I would say I
would say that's an outer truth plain
because he physically rose or he didn't
I'm not going to get into whether he
rolls or he doesn't but I would say
that's an outer truth claim it happened
or it didn't happen but if you say I
don't care that he rose from the dead
it's symbolically important to me and
that metaphor is so meaningful so
purposeful to me and I'm not going to
try to persuade you of it now you've
moved it from outer truth to inner truth
from science to arts and I think we have
a tendency to not be clear about this to
try to move our inner truths to outer
truths or to not be fair about it to
each other and when people are telling
us their inner truths to try to make
them defend them by outer truth
standards so I'm talking here about
outer truths about objective things and
there was an objective reality in my
haunted house right now that I've told
you about the gas leak I doubt a single
person here would be like I still think
there was ghosts too because as soon as
we have these scientific explanations we
know to give up the ghost we use these
things as staff gaps for things that we
can't explain
we don't believe them because of
evidence we believe them because of the
lack of evidence and so there is a group
in Los Angeles called the independent
investigation group or the iig
and they do great work they'll give a
$10,000 prize to anyone who can show
under scientific conditions that they
have a paranormal ability no one's done
it yet but they've had a couple people
who claim that they were clairaudience
which means that they can hear voices
either from the great beyond
or they can read mine and they had one
person who is very sincere who believes
that he could he could read minds so
they set up a test with him and this is
the way it always works
the group says okay we have a protocol
we have a way to scientifically test
this do you agree with it the person
says yes then they test it's very
important that both sides agree they did
that they tested them they said okay you
know what you weren't able to predict
what Lisa was thinking outside you know
it matched up about the same as chance
looks like you don't have the power and
that gave them the opportunity to
compassionately sit down with them and
have a very difficult discussion which
basically amounted to hey we know you're
sincere and what that means is you do
hear something in your head and that
guy's got to make the very difficult
decision but really the life-changing
decision about whether to go get help
we're actually helping people to make
these these connections that maybe
before seems like otherworldly
explanations help draw a sense reality
and maybe change our lives for the
better now on the other hand maybe one
time it'll turn out features maybe we'll
find out there are ghosts and holy
it will be the best thing and every time
I do one of these investigations I still
get so excited and I like 75 into them
and still I swear on number 76 are going
to be like this is the one I mean maybe
I'm just eternally optimistic but I hope
I never lose this hope and
I invite you to take the same attitude
when people share their outer beliefs
with you when talking about testable
claims respect them enough to ask these
good questions challenge and see how you
can examine them together is there's
this idea that you can't respect a
belief and still challenge it but that's
not true when we get overlap when we
test the claim we're saying okay I
respect you I'm listening to what you're
saying I'm going to test it out with you
like we've all had that experience where
you're telling someone something and
they're like I was really interesting
yeah yeah you know you're being had but
when someone says really huh this sounds
a little sketchy to me with a pen
listening you leave no you're being
engaged you're being respected and
that's the kind of attitude we should
have with these claims not showing
someone that you care what they're
saying that's that's respect
now yes most of these searches will come
up and empty so that's how all of
science works every cure for cancer so
far has not panned out but we don't stop
looking
because in for two reasons because
number one the answer matters whether
it's looking at the afterlife or the
paranormal or the cure for cancer it all
amounts to the same question how long
will we be here and and - because
looking for the truth being open-minded
and being willing to be wrong and to
change your whole worldview it is
inspiring I still get excited it goes
stories every single time I still
consider that every group I join might
be right and I hope I never lose that
hope what's a hall never lose that hope
because searching for what's out there
helps us understand what's in here and
also please have a carbon monoxide
detector in your home
thank you
[Applause]
[Music]